= Tidy Markup Cleaner for Rack

Rack::Tidy cleans text/html markup by automatically 
indenting and reformatting content. Best results are achieved 
with valid markup, when you simply want to use this component 
to produce clean (X)HTML rendered by templating systems such as ERb.

Rack::Tidy relies on the power of the Tidy gem and defaults to settings
based on convention. However, you can override these through configuration.

For more information about the Rack specification, check out http://rack.rubyforge.org

== Installation

Prerequisites:

  -Rack gem (sudo gem install rack)
  -Tidy gem (sudo gem install tidy)

From Gem:

  $ sudo gem install webficient-rack-tidy

With a local working copy:

  $ git clone git://github.com/webficient/rack-tidy.git
  $ rake build && sudo rake install

== Usage

Basic Usage
-----------

Rack::Tidy is implemented as a piece of Rack middleware and can be used with
any Rack-based application. If your application includes a rackup (`.ru`) file
or uses Rack::Builder to construct the application pipeline, simply require
and use as follows:

  require 'rack/tidy'

  use Rack::Tidy
  run app

Using with Rails
----------------

Add this to your `config/environment.rb`:

  # above Rails::Initializer block
  require 'rack/tidy'

  # inside Rails::Initializer block
  config.middleware.use Rack::Tidy

You should now see `Rack::Tidy` listed in the middleware pipeline:

  rake middleware
    
Configuration Options
---------------------

The Tidy gem requires setting an internal path variable that points to the Tidy library,
which will differ per platform. Rack::Tidy defaults to '/usr/lib/libtidy.A.dylib'
which is the default location for the Tidy gem on Mac Leopard. To override the constant,
simply define it in your application's configuration file:
        
  TIDY_LIB = '/usr/lib/tidylib.so'

Need Rack::Tidy to ignore certain paths? In your config, pass in an optional array of paths:

  # Rails example
  config.middleware.use Rack::Tidy, 
    :ignore_paths => ['/admin', '/cms']

Rack::Tidy relies on convention with regard to Tidy's configuration (see Rack::Tidy::Cleaner for details). If you want to override/set attributes supported by the Tidy gem, declare them in your configuration as an optional hash:

  # Rails example
  config.middleware.use Rack::Tidy,
    'indent-spaces' => 4
          
See http://tidy.sourceforge.net/docs/quickref.html for Tidy gem config options

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Phil Misiowiec, Webficient LLC. See MIT-LICENSE for details.
